# GregHarvest AI
AI-powered crop recommendation system for small-scale farmers.

## Problem
Many small-scale farmers lack digital literacy, leaving them dependent on outdated practices.
Overplanting leads to more crops but lower earnings due to poor market alignment and supply chain inefficiencies.
Inability to anticipate or mitigate weather risks which results in crop losses.

## Solution 
GregHarvest AI analyzes market prices and suggest crop quantity allocation to achieve balance between profit and quantity of crops.
GregHarvest AI gives suggestions to farmers based on real-time weather data.

## Features
- Weather-based chatbot advice
- Land allocation management
- Farmer-friendly dashboard
- Market price analysis

## Tech Stack
- Frontend: HTML, CSS, Javascript
- Backend: Flask (Python)
- AI Integration: OpenAI API
- Data: OpenWeather API

## Installation
1. Clone the github repository 
git clone https://github.com/ReinaDNA/Machine-not-Learning

2. Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt 
(It is recommended to use a virtual environment)

3. Create a .env file and fill in the API keys with the following names:
OPENWEATHER_API_KEY = YOUR_API_KEY
OPENAI_API_KEY = YOUR_API_KEY

4. Run the app
py app.py or python app.py 
(Both have the same function, whichever works)

## How to Use 
1. Run the application 
2. Open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:5000/login (the prototype login page).
3. Select Login as Guest.
4. Enter your farm size in the land allocation panel, as well as other necessary information.
5. View the suggested crop distribution generated by the system.
6. Open the weather dashboard by clicking on the logo, and ask the chatbot questions with the textbox.

## Team
- Jacky Bong Chun Wui - Front End
- William Tan Jun Khai - Front End
- Chan Huan Yee - Front End
- Seng Zhi Jie - Back End
- Darren Huang Huat Yao - Back End

## Future improvements
- Insert market data of crops
- Further improving the advices given by AI
- Integration with finance APIs to allow transactions.


